elihue further answered hear my words
you wise men give ear to me you who have
knowledge for the ear tests words as the
palate tastes food
let us choose justice for ourselves let
us know among ourselves what is good for
job has said I am righteous but God has
taken away my justice should I lie
concerning my right my wound is
incurable though I am without
transgression what man is like Jobe who
drinks scorn like water who goes in
company with the workers of iniquity and
walks with wicked men for he has said it
profits a man nothing that he should
delight in God therefore listen to me
you men of understanding far be it from
God to do wickedness and from the
Almighty to commit iniquity for he
repays man according to his work and
makes man to find a reward according to
his way surely God will never do
wickedly nor will the almighty pervert
justice who gave him charge over the
earth or who appointed him over the
whole world if he should set his heart
on him if he should gather to himself
his spirit and his breath all flesh
would perish together and man would
return to dust if you have understanding
hear this listen to the sound of my
words should one who hates justice
govern will you condemn him who is most
just is it fitting to say to a king you
are worthless and to Nobles you are
wicked
yet he is not partial to princes nor
does he regard the rich more than the
poor for they are all the work of his
hands and in a moment they die in the
middle of the night the people are
shaken and pass away the mighty are
taken away without a hand for his eyes
are on the ways of man and he sees all
his steps there is no darkness nor
shadow of death where the workers of
iniquity may hide themselves for he need
not further consider a man that he
should go before God in judgment he
breaks in pieces mighty men without
inquiry and sets others in their place
therefore he knows their works he
overthrows them in the night and they
are crushed he strikes them as wicked
men in the open sight of others because
they turned back from him and would not
consider any of his ways so that they
caused the cry of the poor to come to
him for he hears the cry of the
afflicted when he gives quietness who
then can make trouble and when he hides
his face who then can see him whether it
is against a nation or a man alone that
the hypocrite should not reign lest the
people be ensnared far as anyone said to
God I have borne chastening I will
offend no more teach me what I do not
see if I have done iniquity I will do no
more should he repay it according to
your terms just because you disavow it
you must choose and not I therefore
speak what you know men of understanding
say to me wise men who listened to me
job speaks without knowledge his words
are without wisdom o that job were tried
to the utmost because his answers are
like those of wicked men for he adds
rebellion to his sin he claps his hands
a
among us and multiplies his words
against God